>> David Khourshid: The next two lessons
we are going to be working on optimizing
state management and
really organizing it a lot better.
So what I want to start off with are a few
principles that I personally believe
about state management that really help me
shape how I think about managing complex
app logic and how State is supposed
to update in your application.
The first one is that events
are the real source of truth.
If you think about when you make a deposit
or make a withdrawal from a bank,
how does it keep track of how much
money you have in your bank accounts?
And how is it sure that it
doesn't go out of sync?
It's not like it's keeping this
big object, global object,
where it's like, okay,
this person has this much money in there.
Instead it keeps what they call a ledger.
But, you know, in our case, we could
refer to it as just an array of events.
So basically anything that happens
in your application is based on
events that change the state over time.
So like with the bank, you could have
a long ledger where it's like you
made this deposit and this withdrawal and
this deposit, et cetera.
And when you reduce all of those things,
you come up with,
like we talked about in the first
exercise, that's derived value.
So that's why I say events
are the source of truth.
And that's why it's good to think
about things in terms of events.
Because since they're the source of truth,
it doesn't matter
what kind of sources your data are coming
from or what is updating what,
everything can be considered
an event that changes your state.
So I remember earlier
someone was mentioning that.
I think it was you, that you were
mentioning that you have multiple,
multiple places or multiple sources of
truth where your data was coming in and
updating the TV app.
So all of those could be considered
an event where the event
says something changed and
the state will react to that change.
And by abstracting things in terms of
events, you don't really have to think
too deeply about what kind of source
it is, what kind of library or
API you're working with, because at
the end of the day, it's just an event.
So I really like events too,
because events capture a lot
more than state's changes.
And you're going to see this when we get
to that dreaded chained useEffect example,
because when we're dealing with useEffect,
for instance,
the way that useEffects just rerun
are based on the dependency array.
And in the dependency array,
we're saying one of these values changed.
We don't know which one,
but one of them changed.
So we're missing a lot of information.
We're missing the intent, what caused the
change, we're missing timing details and
we're missing that log of, here's all of
the things that led up to this change.
It's just this piece of data updated and
good luck finding out where it is.
So events are the real source of truth,
whether you're using them
explicitly in your apps or not.
You could conceptually think that
anything that changes in your
app is due to some events.
Whether it's from the user or
from some external source, doesn't matter.
The second one might be pretty obvious,
but
the use of pure functions and
immutability.
I really like using pure functions for
AppLogic just because pure functions
are the easiest thing to test.
And it's also the simplest way of
representing your applogic in terms of,
when I'm in this date and
this event happened,
what is the next state going to be?
So again, it doesn't matter whether
you're working in angular react vue, etc.
You can represent your core application
logic using these pure functions.
And you could also represent the way that
you derive state as a pure function too.
So the core principle of this is
really deterministic behavior.
You have this pure function
that runs deterministically and
given the same input, it's always
going to produce the same output, but
more so, it's easy to test.
So you could take that pure function and
write unit tests for it.
And pure functions are also composable.
And you can do things like memoizing the
results of pure functions pretty reliably.
Since everything is self-contained
within that function,
you know they're deterministic.
So you know that if I cache this
expensive value, it's always going to
be consistent with what the pure
function was going to produce.
So that's why I say try to keep all of
your application logic centralized in
pure functions.
Not a single pure function, but
it could be many pure functions.
Another principle that I live
by is the idea that you should
write code as if the framework or
the tool or the library or
any of the underlying abstractions
are just going to change under you.
Now, we've all worked in large code
bases before, and legacy code bases.
We know that this is almost never going
to happen whether we want to or not.
But the idea is that we want to avoid
tightly coupling business logic to to
framework specific patterns.
And this goes hand-in-hand with
peer functions for AppLogic.
We want to separate our logic so
that it's easy to test and
it's easy to adapt pretty much anywhere.
Then, of course,
there are state machines for modeling,
which combines the idea of events
being the real source of truth,
first date, and also using pure
functions to represent app logic.
Now again, I'm not saying use
state machines everywhere,
but thinking about your
app in terms of these
states can allow you to prevent impossible
states and impossible transitions.
By an impossible state,
I mean, for example,
let's say you have an is success and
is error.
You probably don't want those two
things to be true at the same time, but
if they're both floating
around as you state,
then it is very possible
that that can be the case.
Another one that I see very,
very commonly, and you probably have seen
before too, especially with
limited Internet connection,
is you might click on a user or
click on some search results and
you will get a flash of no search results
found or this user does not exist.
And then one second later
they pop up magically.
And so that's why, thinking of state
machines really eliminates those kinds of
problems where listen, all of your
tests and all of your end to end tests
are probably going to pass and
the user might not notice.
But it's those things that really help
you make your app more maintainable and
more predictable, not only for
the developer, but for the user.
Because we don't want to
see inconsistent states,
we don't want to see an error
that immediately disappears.
Or we don't want to run into a state where
we can't get out of such as an error
state that requires us to
restart the entire application.
So using state machines for modeling,
which like we looked at at the last
exercise, modeling states, events and
transitions are going to be really
helpful for avoiding these kinds of
invalid states, invalid transitions and
other things that we'll run into when we
don't explicitly model our app logic.
Then the last one which we're going to
be talking about probably at the end of
the workshop is declarative side effects.
The main principle of this is we want
to separate updating our state so
that peer application logic from
the actual execution of the side effects.
A great example of this is the ELM
architecture, where with ELM and
you have this idea of when you're in a
state and you have some sort of action or
event, it's not just going
to return the next state.
But it's going to return the next state
and also what it calls commands or
effects that are supposed to run
when that state is executed.
And so by having that be declarative,
we could both
easily test that these side
effects are going to occur.
And also, we separate the pure logic, so
the pure function from
the execution of the side effect.
So it makes it a lot easier to test.
We don't actually have to test that,
this side effect did something
when we ran this function.
So let's make sure that
it did the right thing.
We could just test ahead of time like
this effect is going to be called.
And also, it just makes
the behavior more predictable.
For example, let's say that we
were in a flight search page, and
we start searching.
We don't just want to go to
a flight search results page,
we want to go to a flight search results
page and kick off the searching process.
And so that's where declarative
side effects really come in handy.